foreign
so after 35 years of selling
I have come to know
that the hardest part of closing any
deal
is finding it
said again
the hardest part of closing any deal
is finding it
talking about prospecting
if you consider that one SDR can fill
the pipeline of up to three reps
you can accelerate Revenue
at a very quick rate
and again we want our sellers
selling negotiating and closing
and we want this role the SDR to be in
the trenches prospecting qualifying cold
calling
for those of us that started selling a
long time ago
we had to do our own prospecting
and if you consider that every minute
spent prospecting is not spent closing
Revenue
you're just not as efficient
and the role of the SDR started in
Earnest about 25 years ago
and is being refined it's been refined
ever since
and I've started my career as an SDR
in the last 25 years
I've spent that time building SDR teams
and in that time
I've helped five
venture-backed B2B SAS companies grow
SDR teams
in the same amount of time I spent 10
years
working for a local seed stage Venture
Capital firm helping their Founders
understand whether or not they had
a product and a business model that
deserved an SDR motion or not
and helping them build that out if it
was I also spent six years as a
consultant
going into series A B and C companies
uh basically doing turnarounds or where
they had started SDR teams but where
they were languishing
um the investment that you have to make
in this function
is real you have to respect it
to hire the right people
to train them
to do and say and act the way you need
them to to promote you your brand and
your company
to enable them with the tools and
technologies that can make them
efficient and get the word out and begin
that qualification process there is a
lot of moving parts
uh to to doing this right
a lot of companies young companies will
start and they'll Outsource
understanding whether or not this is
something that can work for them
but I can tell you if you get this right
and you bring it in-house
and you develop this motion you will
create pipeline for your sellers revenue
for your company
but there's another thing it's the
talent pool and pipeline that you're
building for your company
today at snowflake we graduate on
average 25 sdrs every quarter
80 percent of them go into AE roles
the other 20 go into roles in marketing
operations we even have a school for
early sales engineers
so if you do this right
right you're taking prospecting out in
the hands of your sellers and you want
them you want your seller selling
negotiating and closing that's what you
want them doing
every minute time spent prospecting is a
minute that could be spent closing
um
so I started my career as an SDR and
today I lead the sales development team
at snowflake
much of what I'm doing today at
snowflake was guided and informed by my
first job out of college as an SDR
and I want to tell this story because
it's the reason I'm standing up here
today
[Applause]
23 year old Lars
this is his first day on the job my
father Gunner was proud he came outside
I was living in Manhattan Beach took a
picture of me
my first job was with Xerox corporation
Xerox in the 70s and 80s was known for
having the best onboarding the best
training the best leadership the best
Management training in the world
it's a company that I really wanted to
join I'd heard all about them and I knew
that this company would invest in me
this is my first day going into my
territory
my enablement and onboarding period
lasted 11 months
they sent me to classes all over the
country to learn how to present to learn
how to handle objections to learn how to
negotiate
they invested in me now 11 months is a
long time
uh we can't do that today and that
program doesn't exist anymore
but it gave me a base
for what incredibly good looked like
when I got home from a long day out in
the streets
pounding pavement as we used to call it
I had a team to go back to that I could
talk about what happened during the day
I had a manager Bruce Roberts who was a
professional he had been trained
on how to lead he'd be it was a trained
professional manager leader
inspirational coaching developing all
the people on his team
he had a second line leader Diana Monroe
who was a professional who had been at
Xerox for 10 plus years again they
created an environment where we were
continuously developed
and I stayed
and I performed
and I moved on and I got promoted and I
stayed at that company
what you see under my right arm is a
Leather Pouch in that pouch were product
slicks
basically my website it's 1989 I was
selling typewriters
fax machines and copiers
the state of modern
inbound lead technology at the time and
this happened you might not be able to
see it but on the left hand side of my
belt is a pager
a pager is a liquid crystal display box
that buzzes when someone calls you
and what would happen is my manager
Bruce Roberts he would get an inbound
lead the form factor was someone who had
ripped out in a magazine or a newspaper
and written in their
written in their information their title
their phone number their address they
would have to take that home drop in an
envelope send it through the U.S Postal
Service to our headquarters in Stamford
Connecticut it would end up one or two
months later on Bruce Robert's desk in
the Long Beach District through
interoffice mail
and there it was
a a hot inbound lead
done two months earlier
uh ending up on his desk in across my
screen what did I have to do
I had to go to the nearest Denny's
because Denny's always had pay phones
and they were reliable I had three of
them in my patch I would take out two
dimes I would call Bruce Roberts jot
down the information another two dimes
call Jenny or Johnny who was uh running
an office set up an appointment get in
my car Toyota Corolla sr2
get out there and begin qualification
and try to sell what I had in my bag
so that was legit I got a gas card
so I could get out into my patch and I
learned very quickly that uh penny
loafers from Buster Brown did not cut it
I got told by some of my pals on my team
Lars go get Alan Edmonds you can resole
them for free
so
why that's interesting and important
today is the experience that I want my
reps having coming into snowflake is I
want to develop them I want to train
them
how to become great at their jobs most
of them have never done this before
I take people out of college I take
people who are changing careers
I bring them in I have to train them I
have to teach them I have to develop
them
and we've built What's called the
snowflake sales development Academy
it is built for the SDR so we're not
throwing our sdrs in and onboarding and
enablement that's filled with sales
engineers and marketers and credit card
sales people it's purpose built for the
SDR it's 30 days long
so a full month of onboarding and
understanding how to use these tools
uh you know take all the playbooks that
we've built learn how to cold call learn
how to write a really good
personalized with context
Outreach sales engagement sequence
that touches on email voicemail maybe a
sentoso send maybe a touch point
um
through Twitter or LinkedIn to gain
familiarity this is what they learn
from there
I'm actually going to get to that part
so
today
having spent 25 years building these
teams these teams I've made every
mistake in the book
and I've had some successes
the last 25 years were spent building
teams at five different Venture back B2B
SAS companies
and
um I'm just going to go through a list
of eight takeaways
for the early stage Founders in the room
I just want to let you know about a year
ago I wrote an article for Jason and
saster that helps the early stage
founder understand
what are the five first revenue-facing
roles I believe they should hire
and again this comes from my 10 years of
uh advising for True Ventures and
talking to early stage Founders which is
typically one two or three founders with
an early
engineering or development team but they
have not yet gone to revenue
um and in my opinion the very first
front Revenue facing higher should be
someone who can develop produce content
and messaging you have to have a story
that your marketer your seller your SDR
can talk through
um hopefully your startup understands
the problems that your potential
prospects are facing and you can Surface
those in content that people can read
people can listen to and people can
watch
uh
customer testimonials case studies
recorded webinars
Vision blogs written by the founder
whatever you can do content is King when
it comes to generating demand and
educating and inspiring potential
prospects to want to learn more and take
a meeting
once that happens
and you start to get this content out
into the world what happens is people
read
people bump people share
these are all signals and become inbound
uh leads potentially
and this is the fodder and this is the
fuel that sdrs love
give me a qualified
marketing
lead where someone has downloaded
a piece of content that they have
interacted with and engaged with
um
a few times
and so the second role that I advocate
for a very early stage founder after
that content person is two sdrs
there is no head of Revenue there's no
head of marketing it's a Content person
and two sdrs and those sdrs should be
booking meetings for the founder and the
early stage team
I'm a big fan of early stage Founders
learning how to sell their own product
they will forever be
the best sales rep that company has and
they have to learn what it looks like to
go down a sales path and lose
they have to learn
what it looks like to go down the sales
path and when
for a deal to go sideways up and down
they have to do that in my opinion and
close deals
um as these sdrs start generating
meetings
and pipeline starts to build then yes
higher two sales reps never hire one
always higher in pairs
so again
um
if you want to take a look at that and
there's others but uh for the early
stage Founders in the room
so what do you hire for
um
sdrs are not Junior s DRS are
they want to start their careers or they
want to change their careers
we hire people that are coming back from
the military
we hire teachers
we hire people that have been at home
for 20 years that want to restart their
careers and do something different we
also hire
young adults coming out of University
we also hire people that never went to
college but they've got
what I have up here which is fire in the
belly and that is something that I have
never been able to teach
I can teach anyone how to qualify I can
teach anyone how to present these are
all skills that I learned going through
formal but what I've never been able to
teach
is how to get up in the morning with a
great attitude and get after it that is
what we hire for at snowflake
and there are many ways uh to screen for
that in my opinion and ask questions
around that but that
is what we're looking for with that
attitude
I can do anything
so
the other thing that I think is very
important for earlier stage companies
and that needs to be refined over and
over again if not every year often is
have an understanding of the target
addressable Market that you believe in
your heart of hearts
you're gonna solve and it's not
the whole world
um
all the companies I've joined are B2B
SAS Enterprise uh not necessarily plg
motions where you're selling uh
something in days or weeks for thousands
or you know thousands of dollars is
there Enterprise
class a little bit more complex
and you have to give your marketing team
a break and not tell them to go create
demand in every geography in the world
and every vertical and across all these
personas you've got to start
with a focus in my opinion and I think
that is anywhere from one thousand to
five thousand accounts
uh to start out
I think the reason that's important is
because as you find success in your
early sales campaigns you're going to
understand the personas the titles of
the people that care
that care about your solution
the people that care about your solution
that you grab their attention of in the
beginning of a sales cycle is different
from the person that ends up coming in
in the middle of the sales cycle is very
different from the people at the end of
the sales cycle
but as you go down the path
take a look at your CRM and do and win
and loss reviews and begin to understand
the personas
that actual titles
because the most beautiful thing today
in the world we live in is we have
services like Zoom info and Lucia
and Lincoln sales Navigator and all an
SDR needs to get going is a set of
accounts and a set of personas and they
can get going
and they're not going to wait for these
people to trip over one of our marketing
assets and come to us
we're going to go out to them
and it's important you need to have an
inbound motion and you need to have an
outbound Motion in my opinion so the
importance of an inbound motion
if your content developer producer
is doing their job and they're creating
all this great content and messaging and
it's going out in various form factors
and you're creating all this inbound
do yourself a favor
and Implement a lead to account matching
technology we use a company called lean
data what that does is because we have
our tan
introduced and seated into our CRM
database
any inbound lead that comes outside of
that Tam does not get prioritized that
is not an SDR relevant lead
our Tam was agreed to by sales and
marketing coming together and in the
same room
and so if something were to come outside
of that
while that may be a signal and maybe
interesting
it's not something that we want to let's
say burn a bunch of time on because odds
are it could be and might be a false
positive
when sdrs are used
to just manage inbounds
um
you might overtake them and burn them
out because at the end of a long day of
going through a bunch of inbound leads
from a trade show
now like saster
um and they get 99 out of 100 blanks and
they've left 99 voice messages and
they've followed up with 99 emails and
they go off uh it's it's a burnout so
again inbound lead to account matching
the other thing that happens quite a bit
is right your partners are reading your
materials your competitors are reading
they're students Engineers right if
you're producing a lot of content and
pushing messaging out and having
programs uh and events you will get a
lot of inbound
do yourself a favor and automate this
part of it
you will create more time for your sdrs
to go outbound
to the people that you've already
identified
because you have a tam
importance of outbound so it we live
like I like to say in a modern account
based world today
um
and again the accounts that are out
there have ever more ubiquitous access
to people that have their roles and
other companies and they can ask hey
what are you using
they can go to meetups like this and and
and and learn what other people are
doing they can read they have access to
near perfect information on every single
vendor that they may be looking at
um
but you can't get to all those people
there are a lot of people that don't go
to events that don't read but you can
find them
in LinkedIn sales Navigator you can find
them in these services and go outbound
and so what a lot of us have been doing
the last five to ten years is we we have
been building these account based
marketing motions
and delivering
two target personas very personalized
very specific uh you know to the role to
the geography to the vertical
so it's not it's not whitewashed it's
not
um
watered down it's very specific because
if you in your heart of hearts believe
that this
Persona can
gain value to it you should be very
confident in sending them that message
your open rates your reply rates will go
up if you have nailed this part in my
opinion
what we do at snowflake is we
um at the beginning of every month sales
and marketing we get together we decide
on a series of accounts that we want to
put into an account based marketing
motion
we then
use a series of Technologies
um like Sixth Sense and bombora to
understand whom in that set of accounts
might be surging on
um
things that they're reading
words that they may be searching on and
we see these surge reports that come
that say Visa is doing a lot of research
on cloud data storage
and we'll hone in on that and we'll
create this list knowing that perhaps
right now is a very good time to send
out the account based marketing content
which is a series of ads
um and other pokes and prods what
happens then after three weeks
that stops and the sdrs are sitting
there ready with their Outreach
sequences touch patterns that are all
automated hoping that
someone is going to
open their email reply to it and engage
and we see all those for those of you
that don't understand sales engagement
technology it is one of the must-haves
if you're going to build out a sales
development organization
it's where they spend 98 of their time
90 of their time they are not spending
it in marketing automation or in CRM
leads me to the tech stack again sales
engagement is a must-have if I was an
early stage founder and I was just
starting to get to revenue after I had
the person that's generating content and
messaging
I would
I would get sales engagement tool and I
would get two data providers that is all
an SDR needs to get going now you can go
crazy with automating the mundane and
I'm a big fan of that there are so many
services and Technologies and tools that
you can hand over to an SDR team that
makes their job more efficient they can
do it more quickly
calendaring and there's all manner of
cool out there
so
the other thing that I want Founders and
revenue leaders in the audience to take
away is I want you to understand the
role
because I want you to walk away
with respect for it because these early
in their career professionals
right that you're training
you want them to develop in your company
and you want them to want to stay there
and what we've done is we've dedicated
an Ops training and enablement team so
we have a director that has seven direct
reports they report up to me the global
leader not into enablement not into so
we choose all our own technology
we orchestrate it we
customize it we develop playbooks all
for the SDR so they're not thrown into
the deep end so to speak
so the other thing and
I might be the oldest or the longest SDR
leader it's just because I started doing
this 25 years ago
SDR was not necessarily A
career 10 years ago
today there are SDR leaders that have
been doing it for 10 years when I joined
snowflake two years ago there was only
two VPS of global sales development
today there's about 20 and that's only
going to grow
if you look at many of the companies
in the valley that have grown to
prominence they've done it on the back
of an SDR team but that SDR team has
been enabled it's been trained
it's been focused on and it's been given
the respect of the executive leadership
team
and for those of you that have SDR teams
today or you're thinking about building
it
as you get those as you go from those
two sdrs that don't have a manager or
their manager is the founder and as that
team grows
give them the front line leadership that
they deserve a developed professional
SDR leader that knows how to coach
that knows how to inspire
and then knows how to mentor and develop
and then as the team go grows
hire a you know give that person the
title and a seat at the table if not
full-time part-time the signals
that an SDR team can inform Marketing
sales
right at the end of every day so we have
223 sdrs
at snowflake they report to 2021 front
line
Str managers who report to four second
line directors at the end of every given
day
we have over 10 000 dials
probably have sent 25
000 emails this is on a daily basis
the signals the noise the beauty
everything that comes from that informs
Us and how we just get a little bit
better the next day
we've implemented a conversational
intelligence tool called gong
unbelievable what you get from this kind
right the coaching now is real
we have this thing called the Hall of
Fame
in the Hall of Fame
in our internal
Wiki if you will are the best email
sequence that have the best open rates
based on persona
or based on subject line
we also have the very best first cold
calls
we have
done this thing where uh sdrs that don't
mind who realize they messed up on a
cold call Will input that into the Hall
of shame or Hall of Fame that is the not
so Hall of Fame as a way to show
incoming new sdrs what good looks like
and what not so good looks like that as
a training platform
is just unbelievable
so again not something that I might
Implement right out of the gate but as
you begin to grow this team
um you have tools and technologies that
can help your sdrs punch way above their
weight
we have the AES now that are seeing the
copy
and the sequences and they're going
that's the way there and I can do man uh
can I uh can you can I take that so
really cool stuff
hey Lars yeah Ryan Rooney uh within tap
uh so we're a little bit more mature
about 300 million about 35 sdrs so
questions relative to that context
how tightly do you align with field
sales coverage wise strategy wise
outcome wise and what do you think the
role of the account exec is in uh
ongoing success of the SDR I love this
question
so when I came to snowflake eight years
ago our coverage was one to eight
doesn't even work I don't ever do that
very quickly we got it down to one to
four so one SDR was overlaid to four
account executives
still pretty light in my opinion again
we're a company at scale we're public we
now have gotten it down to one to three
point five
heading to one to three
and so each SDR is overlaid so if if you
take the one to three which is what I
advocate for
those sdrs should be managed and guided
in their everyday every week every month
you know business by the
account execs it's one of the most
important relationships that needs to be
in place in order for this to work
there are three types of sales reps
there's a sales rep
that understands maybe they were an SDR
but they understand the role and they
understand how hard it is and they're
willing to put in the time to help
develop that is what you want but what
you end up also getting is AE number two
that AE that
is busy out and while they can't do it
all the time they're willing to help
when they can
watch out for rep number three they
could care less and they think that
their SDR is just getting in the way and
if they do anything they'll give them a
hey take the contract to uh to finance
for me um and it's it's a burn
um and so you want to make sure and I
don't necessarily care where if SDR sit
in sales or marketing I have some
comments about that but what I do care
about is that the field respects the
role they understand it and they help
them get up to speed because like I said
in the in the talk if you do this right
one SDR can fill the pipeline of up to
three reps
uh I don't have the mic so something's
got up yes hi
um thank you uh that answered a bit of
my question I was going to ask what
metrics you do use in order to determine
when you add your next you know SDR to a
team it sounds like you're narrowing in
on one to three is that based on
any cost of you know meeting or
opportunity metric or is that based on
Pipeline they're building or how did you
come to that and I did have one quick
follow-up after that too yeah so it
comes from
um we're at 1 to 3.5 so we just follow
the head count augmentation and planning
of field sales we're going through
headcount planning for next year right
now when they decide what uh to give
sales
what percentage growth we will take that
and divide that one to three point five
and make sure that we have that amount
of coverage okay and then um your sdrs
do both inbound and outbound I think we
have a challenge at our company and I'm
similar size but we're 500
450 million and we got about 35 sdrs as
well and we're looking to scale that we
want to figure out how to scale it
globally
um
but um I was just we have a sdrs
primarily doing inbound and then we have
a smaller group doing outbound and I
really like the points in your talk
about you got to optimize that inbound
time yeah so they can do more outbound
how do you balance so two people with 30
30 to 35 SDR teams you guys should talk
um
this is a very very important Point
the amount of time an SDR burns on false
positives or leads that aren't in your
Tam is a real thing the company I worked
for before snowflake was a company
called Cloudera and we had a marketing
organization that wanted me to have my
team go through every single inbound
and it was
it just it didn't work and we ended up
implementing lean data as an inbound
lead to account matching and I was able
to show marketing that 90 of their
inbound leads fell completely out of our
town
and literally 40 of them came from
partners
because we didn't have so as soon as we
put accounts into our CRM we put all of
our partner accounts into our CRM
the other thing that happens a lot is
you get inbounds from active in-flight
Prospect opportunities and you get a ton
of inbound from active customers
you don't want your sdrs
following up on a lead from an active
in-flight Prospect you want your sales
rep so if you do this right
an inbound lead operation should make
sure that leads are getting dispensed
and dispersed to the right people and
you have this notion of what an SDR
relevant lead is
rsdrs jump for joy when it's a green
field account on a list they've been
given by their AE and the AAE says go to
town on this list I've never talked to
them I've never had time you get me
meeting there and I will and they get
inspired of course that's what they want
to do they want to help their AE get to
where they don't have time or haven't
gotten to before
yeah
so in your session you just said that
you can train about sales you can coach
them on methodologies but the fire in
the belly thing it's actually
um the hardest part that you can get so
what is your personal suggestion or
trick that you actually do to identify
this and secondly to make this fire in
the valley to spread inside the
department that's a really good question
so how do I find people with fire in the
belly this attitude of self-starter
self-motivator because I've never been
able to teach that
I believe it comes from your upbringing
and your peer group when you were
younger you are the average of your five
closest friends if you will
what I do
yes people would you know people with
high gpas and athletes right they've
been competing with others and
themselves their entire lives they've
been practicing they've been focusing
all of that so those are easy the ones
that aren't so easy might be the people
that have come at a university or
they're changing jobs but if you look at
their resume or their profile you can
see that they haven't just been sitting
down by the river doing whatever they've
been trying and if they have a narrative
and a story that helps explain some
things that maybe didn't go right for
them but they have that I'm going to
pull myself from from my bootstraps I'm
gonna I've been doing this and I've been
doing that and I've been reading you can
tell when someone I can tell when
someone's in front of me whether or not
I want to take a chance because I see
potential I don't need to see a track
record of success
in anyone in fact I'm not looking I
don't want any bad habits uh that people
for sdrs that come from other operations
I want to take someone raw and I want to
kind of teach them the way I was taught
when I got my first job at Xerox
Corporation but they had a formal
onboarding program I know that's hard
for startups to do I was just talking to
a Founder over here and again if you
don't have formal onboarding
there you can hire sdrs today from
people like memory blue is a company
that trains sdrs uh for free and then
places them uh SV Academy is another one
vendition is another one there are more
and more companies that are training
sdrs on all the technology on all the
process and so instead of taking a
chance on someone that has no background
in cold calling or cold emailing using
all these Technologies you can get them
pre-vetted by companies and pay a little
extra and so you know you're getting
someone that actually wants the job
knows the job and has had some success
uh you know in in mock calls and and
writing mock emails and things like that
hey Lars just quick question talking
about the profile of HDR how much
technical do they need to be or is their
job is just to qualify because the
products that we sell is quite Technical
and very complicated in some sense
actually so what is the expectation that
you expect in terms of like oh they
should be able to talk as much details
as possible or should they just qualify
the opportunity go on the banker thing
and let's say a budget all those things
are there and that's enough for them to
to to get the job done so when I'm
hiring a new hire I'm looking for
absolutely nothing I want fire in the
belly because if you're a self-motivator
and self-starter and you start
succeeding and you start performing you
are going to pick up the technology and
again rsdrs graduate from onboarding
into the role and then as they begin to
perform and succeed
they can become a senior SDR and then
from there when they get to 15 months
and they're at a certain performance
level they can put their name in the Hat
for a corporate account executive job
and then we continue the training and
the onboarding in what it looks like to
carry a bag how to negotiate a snowflake
consumption pricing
optimization deals uh which is not
something they necessarily learned as an
SDR but you'd be surprised those scrs
that are enterprising they will
they will do their own research and Bone
up on this technology and the smart
thing also to do is make sure that your
sdrs are on the call that they help set
up for their AES they should be on every
call
um
they'll learn the language they'll learn
uh what it is the product can do they'll
hear all the use cases and the stories
you definitely want that but right out
of the gate coming in I don't really
want them to have anything
um because I want to get them raw what I
will do is I will give them a very
professional front line
sales development leader
um
my team is built up of younger in their
career people earlier in their career
people
um and while I enable train them they
still need ongoing development they need
a manager to care about them and want
them to you know if Performance
Management if they're you know dials and
and and emails are down and they're
starting but all kinds of things happen
active Frontline leadership of sdrs is
really important after you hire your
first two or three
once you get to three or four sdrs I
would invest in someone who has done the
the role before
um hi uh I had a couple questions just
to the you said always two at a time why
um and then as far as the process from
content to sdrs to sales that you
highlighted in your presentation
um does that work at every Market
segment so as the ticket sizes get let's
say above a million a year two million a
year does that break down is is the SDR
qualifying and being at the front lines
still hold when you're selling say you
know Capital One of 10 million a year
contract okay
um
the first question was why two at a time
two at a time if you hire one SDR and
you put them on the front lines you will
not know if they work out for three to
six months
um and if you're a Founder that's never
done this before it might take you even
longer
when you figure out that you've made
that mistake
now you got to figure out
how to manage it out
or get rid of it or take care of it that
may take a quarter or two and then you
have to replace it
and then that may take a quarter or two
you're looking at anywhere from a one
year at the minimum to a two-year
mistake if you hire two
hopefully what happens is
you hire the the right two people and
they are just right there's coopetition
that happens on SDR teams there's
friendly competition they want to push
each other but they also want to be
number one it is we have a
performance-based culture among other
things on our team at Snowflake and
the best thing that can happen is those
two sdrs give you twice as much as you
ever could expect it but what typically
happens is one starts to Surge and
another one doesn't and then you can
decide whether or not that person is
someone you have to rip and replace but
what you have not done is you have not
affected your pipeline because that is
the air that we all breathe
we that is the only air we breathe if
you don't have at least two to three if
not four times the pipeline coverage for
any given month or quarter
you ain't gonna make it
and the second question
um we don't have any sdrs right now
we're quite a bit smaller than the other
companies we're about 35 million ARs and
we're going down market and we just
don't know like what we've sold
traditionally to large Enterprise we've
been very hesitant to put Junior people
in front of that but now as we start to
scale
it's we're trying to figure out what
where which market segments to put the
sdrs into we're not sure if it's
appropriate for everybody so great
question so if you're and and I I have a
resource that is a decision tree that'll
help you understand if you are a
candidate for an SDR Motion in my
opinion if you are selling
a product or a service for less than
twenty five thousand
that should take
you know that should take
right if you're selling something for a
thousand or three thousand or ten
thousand you got to do that in days if
not one or two weeks
you do not want to have an SDR
qualifying and hang that that just takes
that's too expensive it's too disruptive
you need to build a high velocity inside
sales team so you can go demo to close
and you just go along on that
um if you have a 25
000 average selling price but your
lifetime value it's a land and expand
and that 25
000 customer can become a 50 or 100 000
customer within the year
and that's your strategy SDR all the way
because you want your sellers selling
and your sdr's prospecting that
separation of duties
right first of all AES they get paid to
sell and close that's what they want to
do
anytime a sales rep is prospecting is
time away from selling and that's just
downtime
so if you think you have an SDR emotion
put it in try it and again
I'm a little bit hesitant to say go and
check out the outsourced SDR providers
out there but there are more and more
and they're getting better and better
there's one in the back right here I see
him
do you know of Ulta sales there are
really really good they understand
modern account based motions
they have access and they have paid for
Zoom info and gong and Outreach and
Linkedin sales Navigator
to put a tech stack together to drive an
outbound in an inbound SDR motion it's
not for the faint of heart you have to
have operations people enablement people
they have to put together this Tech
stack in a way and then create playbooks
that people can follow
right
um and again I am an advocate for a
young startup that wants to try this to
go Outsource it just to see because what
they will do is they will show you what
really good looks like and hopefully
they have clients in the past that fit
your profile the fit your segmentation
oh there's many there's uh but Alta
sales happens to be one just because I'm
looking at the founder right now and
he's a good man sapper Consulting is
another one there's so many
there's so many
um if you want to reach out to me and
ask me after you've vetted a few uh I
typically know all of them and I know I
can tell you that ninety percent of them
suck
um it's really really hard uh and if you
do it just make sure that you have
someone managing them just like you
would an SDR manager because if you just
decide yep we're going to try
Outsourcing and let them do
you've got to be very very you got to
manage them daily weekly just like sdrs
hi I'm Lily from gradient Works um so I
really believe that str's account books
really matter
account books like the accounts that
they're outbounding to because that's
their full-time job right prospecting
um I'm curious at what point in a stage
for a company do you see scr leaders
taking less heart in building out a
territory plan for the sdrs for the
coming year
yeah so I've taken that off their plated
snowflake as we're at scale and I have
an operation team that does that
um I think in a smaller operation that
falls on the SDR leader to make sure
that they're aligned with their district
manager or regional vice president or
whatever they have on the sales side
uh
um
an SDR in my opinion should not be
outbounding cold to any account that
sales people haven't at least blessed
um I would want to make sure that any
account on SDR is going after sits with
them some target market unless you're
really in the beginning and you haven't
you might have just gotten a product
Market fit but you're not exactly sure
the Industries or the verticals or the
personas then I think you can just
let's get it out there let's see what
happens uh let's see if we get
engagement from this group or that group
and I know a lot of outsourced providers
are asked to do this because they want
to see and you can tell you you send
a sales engagement touch pattern
sequence out to a thousand C isos that's
an easy list to pull
um or you decide to do it to five
different personas at the same company
just see what the engagement is see
who's opening see who's clicking on the
beauty of sales engagement is you embed
a link to something that you have
created whether it's a white paper or a
link to your website
someone opens that email clicks on that
link you know exactly where they went
how many seconds they spent on your own
page where they navigated to these are
all signals that inform an SDR when they
let's say do get a hold of them on the
phone or they
do a follow-up email hi Jenny thank you
for spending time on our website last
week I saw that you spent 23 minutes I
mean there's all this beautiful context
that comes from the signals that uh that
that sales engagement provides in the
opens and replies and what happens with
the links that you embed in these emails
yeah yeah we we had a market vertical
Commerce platform for very conservative
chemical industry where people hate
receiving cold emails and cold calls do
you think svr model can work and how can
we make it work
yeah
um
again
we have we're Global we have I can tell
you this we have used four channels we
use the phone we use the email we use
ascending platform reach desk and we use
social touch points
and I will tell you that at any given
time
in an sdr's career sometimes in one
month they'll be surprised at how many
uh connects they get other times they
don't get one
and so our Mantra is you never know
what's going to hit with someone and you
got to be using all of them if in your
particular industry you don't is it
emails or phones that they don't
so again
an email can be sent out to use as a
branding you know your company your your
message your content the problem you're
trying to solve and then a follow-up
voicemail can bump that
and then if it's a true high value
Target I'll tell you what happened to me
you can send them something uh our SDR
spent a lot of time sending uh you know
coffee cards or this they'll send
cupcakes
um I once got a full-size Louisville
Slugger baseball bat
and it came to my office I opened it up
I didn't understand the next day I got a
vidyard video uh representation of the
SDR who said hey Lars hope you got the
Louisville Slugger baseball bat I sent
it to you because I listened to the I
listened to the uh Speech you gave at
the true Ventures true University three
years ago and I was inspired by the
story you told about uh uh uh
coaching your daughter's little league
baseball team I hope you can use this
for baseball uh for batting practice
next season
I was blown away I looked at the title I
looked at the company it was relevant
SDR technology I was completely blown
away uh I caught I didn't wait for him
to call me back I called them the next
day and said great job
I get it you got the meeting so how much
time and energy you put into
personalizing
is really dependent on how high value
the target is so if phone doesn't work
try email if that doesn't work
sending platforms and there's many today
we have sendoso we have postal dot IO we
have reach desk there's many of them
because they work in certain instances
and certain geographies and certain
verticals with certain personas you got
to try them all
hi Lars Lori Harmon from cloudflare I
have two questions one is what are the
compensation elements like what are the
metrics compensation yeah pay variable
to
um snowflake sdrs that's the first one
so I'll let you answer that and then
I'll skip the second one oh this is a
very hotly debated Topic in SDR land
what do you pay your sdrs on
um God I can't I I hope I deliver this
in the way because I want to use this so
I and again 25 years of doing this
the SDR can control the meetings that
they set up
they can control the quality of the
qualification information
what they cannot do is they cannot
control whether or not that meeting that
executes becomes an opportunity and goes
on to close
that is the job of a sales rep do not
pay your sdrs to try to get anything
beyond that first meeting
again if that first meeting is a target
company that you have asked them to get
into into a list of five or ten personas
that are legitimate that we want to get
in front of and they do it
pay them
pay them on meetings
delivered and executed that's the only
metric we pay on it at uh what I often
hear
um and elt members will get together or
you know some people above and they'll
be like ah the SDR team's doing really
well they're getting all these meetings
but
a lot of these opportunities aren't
going forward in the sales process maybe
we pay them a little bit more uh or we
take part of their compensation away
from the meeting and Tack it on to
whether or not it progresses does not
work in my opinion because you cannot
force an AE and while I respect the heck
out of an AE and I've been one before
sometimes
they decide when they want to show the
company that they have an active deal
that they're working on and sometimes
they don't
again not for me and I can tell you that
in a lot of meetings that I have seen
and and and run through the
qualification information
they got everything they understood but
what what happened at the end was that
uh the company decided not to go forward
because they had bought a competitor
three months before that that's
massively
that that's great information
the SDR had the wherewithal to ask
second level questions well God did you
hear about us were we involved in the in
in the trial or the you know uh they
asked all these second level questions
and we got more information out of that
call
that the SDR set up that's value pay
them for that value if the meeting
doesn't execute because it gets pushed
or they don't show up we don't pay but
if it executes and it's into an account
that's in your Tam
against a Target Persona you pay them
all day long
that was a long answer
so this is part B actually not my second
question so you don't pay them also on
meetings that happen that were accepted
by the AE like as yes like they agreed
that they were qualified you just pay on
the meeting that was executed that's
right okay thank you second question is
during this hybrid environment we're
working on what Pro what approaches have
you taken that are Innovative to keep
your scrs engaged you know when they
were working at home and remotes is
there some of them are college graduates
so most teams that start off small are
hybrid they're doing inbound and they're
doing outbound uh it doesn't really
matter I mean some people call them adrs
some people call them bdrs some people
call them sdrs some people call them
ldrs it's all the same for the most part
um
uh I lost track here
yeah so when you get to a certain size
and I believe it's five to ten sdrs I
think you need to go away from a hybrid
approach and specialize and have an
inbound and an outbound team
um uh and I think that's important in
the very beginning you probably have a
round robin you have two sdrs you can't
figure out what's Equitable so you go
around Robin as you get a little bit
bigger uh three to four to five you can
set them up in in regions as you get
Beyond five and you have a really strong
inbound motion but no outbound motion
you have to try it
um we have 223 sdrs at snowflake there's
only one dedicated to inbound and they
monitor the driftbot
everyone else
because we have an account based a very
sophisticated account based marketing
and selling program
every single inbound that we get can be
very easily
routed to the account owner
but it's also
uh routed to the accompanying SDR so if
you're a Capital One and we're doing you
know multi-million dollar deals if we
get an inbound the SDR and the account
executive are going to get the same
inbound lead at the same time
and what happens is the esteeall will
reach out to the AE and say you know
Jenny what would you like me to do here
Jenny might say
I'm out on a three-day Roadie I don't
know this person do me a favor follow up
with them
or they might say you know what
I was the one who invited
Johnny to that date of her breakfast and
uh I want to take that
clear lines of communication process has
been set up there's not a lot of people
doing this and that
there's a lot that can go wrong when you
have inbound and outbound and you have
marketing sending marketing Automation
and you have sales reps using sales
engagement you have customer success I
mean there's a lot you can confuse your
targets and so you need to orchestrate
foreign
[Music]